**CDN Node** is a collective term for nodes in the CESS CDN network, responsible for implementing data retrieval load balancing, preventing DDOS attacks, and bidirectional distribution of user data from users to the CESS network and from the CESS network to users. Moreover, CDN Node also implements native support for processing AI data/training datasets, models and other data in the underlying architecture, helping CESS contribute to the development of the AI ecosystem. CDN Node can be divided into two roles in the program: retriever and cacher. Cachers can run on a large number of DePin devices to achieve lightweight data caching functions and earn revenue by contributing data traffic; retrievers support functions such as data retrieval and processing, load scheduling, and data sharing between nodes, and earn revenue by contributing computing power and data traffic. Users can run script tools through dedicated nodes to monetize related resources by running any role of CDN Node as needed.

- **Retriever** includes data retrieval, caching, calculation, and scheduling functions, and verifies effective traffic proof for the cache. The retriever shares cached data through the IPFS network, achieving efficient data interoperability across the entire CDN network.

- **Cacher** realizes lightweight data caching function and can run on low-power DePin devices, contributing traffic to obtain revenue. CESS achieves unlimited scalability of edge cache by deploying a large number of cachers.

Read about [how to run a Retriever](./running-retriever.md) or [how to run a Cacher](./running-cacher.md)