In order to overcome the shortcomings of traditional independent data storage media in terms of reliability and easy loss, cloud storage technology has been widely accepted and applied. With the help of cloud storage technology, people can access their data anytime and anywhere without worrying about whether the storage space is sufficient, whether the data will be lost, whether it is convenient to carry, etc. However, over-centralized cloud storage also faces many challenges, such as data security (leakage, loss or tampering), weak anti-censorship, the rights and interests of data owners cannot be guaranteed, and the formation of data islands. How to solve the problem of secure data storage has become a problem that must be faced and urgently solved.

Based on this, we will build a decentralized distributed cloud storage based on blockchain technology - CESS Storage, which has the storage efficiency and usage experience of cloud storage, and can effectively solve the current problem of over-centralization of data storage. This is the problem that the CESS system needs to solve in the first phase.

CESS uses the token incentive mechanism to effectively utilize idle storage resources and freely join the construction of the CESS network with unlimited "scalability". Each node connected to the CESS network corresponds to the corresponding scattered idle storage, network and computing resources. With the help of virtualization technology and cloud computing technology, these resources are effectively managed to form a unified, massive data storage lake (pooling) to provide users with efficient data storage services. Various nodes linked together according to the CESS protocol constitute a huge decentralized cloud storage system, which can establish a large-scale data storage that supports 100PB level and form a distributed storage ecosystem. The stored data is encrypted and split into pieces and randomly sent to several miner nodes. The CESS multi-copy storage recovery mechanism (PoDR²) (the system defaults to three copies, but supports users to customize the number of data copies. The customized part requires additional storage fees to the CESS system) uses a homomorphic signature mechanism to ensure that the storage miners store the number of data copies specified by the CESS system or the user, ensuring the high availability of stored data in distributed scenarios. The damage of any piece of data will not cause the loss of the file content of the storage user, improving and ensuring the security of stored data, friendly account subsystem, novel consensus mechanism and trusted distributed storage underlying facilities, and realizing low-cost, privacy, security and stability of data storage, as well as data confirmation and data rights protection.

CESS builds a decentralized cloud storage ecosystem based on blockchain to realize commercial storage, meet the actual needs of commercial applications for large-scale valuable data storage, prevent data leakage and loss, and protect data security and privacy. It solves the security issues of data storage that have been plaguing mankind, and develops an ecosystem centered on data security storage, circulation, and open, transparent, co-construction, sharing, and co-prosperity. CESS strives to provide a safe and reliable user data and build a transparent, efficient and equal new storage transaction market.

In this section, we will cover how the peer-to-peer network used in CESS Network works and how nodes discover each others within the network.
<!--
- [Identification](identification.md)
- [Consistency Guarantee](consensus-security.md)
- [Node Discovery](node-discovery.md)
- [Message Protocol](message-protocol.md)
- [Storage Method](storage-method.md)
-->
